DETAILED PROCEDURE ANALYSIS
The protocol is divided into two parts, as the TickMotion offers 2 different analyses: (A) Graphical analysis (GA), and (B) Pixel activity analysis (PAA). One video can be analyzed with both, GA and PAA, as they are together complementary and can create more detailed final results. In both protocols it is recommended to follow the steps in their designated order for the optimal results.

Graphical analysis (GA)
The GA begins by clicking on the button: “Graphical Analysis”. The final outcome of the GA includes a graph showing the amplitude of contractions over time (frames) in the selected roi, text files containing data of each roi featured in the graph, and PNG images representing each analyzed segments of the video file. 

1. Number of roi
In the first step, you have to type the number of roi, between 1 and 10 (the maximum of 10 is mostly due to maintain the whole analysis process smooth). Each roi will undergo analysis separately. More than 10 roi cannot be analyzed at the same time. 

2. Select Video and roi
In this step navigate TickMotion to the folder and select (double-click) a video file. TickMotion supports following file types: .mp4, .avi, and .mov. Continue in this step by selecting (left-click) the roi. The application will automatically stop the selecting process and the video file will be closed once the number of selected roi corresponds the number established in the previous step. 
Please, DO NOT close the video file during selection process. If you intend to change selected roi, let the program close it automatically (explained above) and repeat this step directly in the application. The graph shows results from any movement captured on the video. Try to select all roi from parts of the video, where movements are clear, muscle contractions are repetitive and/or the background noise is the lowest.

3. Frame Parameters (dimensions)
To enhance the efficiency of the analysis, and to target specifically contracting or moving segments of a video file, squares are created around each roi. The frame size is customizable, with the default dimensions set as follows (in pixels): "-x" = 50, "+x" = 50, "+y" = 50, "-y" = 50. Selecting alternative dimensions is confirmed by clicking the button: "Update Frame Parameters".
Note that it is essential to emphasize that for optimal muscle contraction analysis, selecting a frame size that closely surrounds the focused area (minimizing background interference) is crucial.

4. Set Output Folder
In this step, navigate to the output folder, where all the results (graph, text files, and PNG images) will be saved. Note that files from one analysis will be named corresponding to each roi separately. Please remind that the output files from multiple analyses will always have the same name, so it is necessary to save the data to different folders. 

5. Analyze
The graph is automatically generated by analyzing pixel activity within the selected roi and specified frame dimensions from the previous steps. This graph incorporates data for all roi, with the video file duration set to a predetermined 10 minute length (maximum). Data for each roi in the graph are normalized based on the pixel intensity of the first frame, ensuring that the initial x value for every roi is always 0, in the final graph. The system automatically saves all data in the designated “Output Folder”. PNG images are derived from the initial video frame to prevent blurriness. The whole analysis took around 30 seconds per 1 minute long video (recorded at 60 fps) and 1 roi selected.
PNG images are created to facilitate the video analysis during the setup of frame dimensions in preceding steps. Once the analysis is completed, you can revise the frame dimensions around selected roi and repeat the analysis, if needed.

6. Show Output Folder
The output folder can be easily find by clicking on the button "Show Output Folder".

7. Back
This allows the user to return on the main menu.

Pixel Activity Analysis (PAA)
The PAA starts by clicking on the button: “Pixel Activity Analysis”. As a result, TickMotion provides a PNG image of active and inactive pixels from the video. It calculates the activity of each pixel separately, when it met the preset settings, active pixels will be shown as white, otherwise as black. The TickMotion repository on GitHub also includes the second version of the script, named “TickMotion v_2”, where the PAA is modified only in terms of visualizing the results (not the method). It shows active pixels as red, while the background is derived from the first frame of the video file. This approach was additionally designed to help in analyzing movements on a bigger scale.

1. Choose Video
The first step in the PAA is similar to the GA, navigating to the folder and selecting a video file (again, multiple video file types are supported). Selecting of roi is not needed in this step, as the PNG will be generated for the whole video automatically.

2. Select Output Folder
In this step, navigate to the output folder, where the PNG image will be saved. Note that the output PNG will be named “active_pixels” in every analysis. Therefore multiple analyses have to be saved in different folders, or renamed after analysis manually.

3. Update Settings
In this step you can customize your video analysis by selecting “Threshold percentage” (t%) and “Frame skip” (FS) parameters. t% refers to the activity of pixels per time and is preset to 80. When selecting t% to 80, it means that every pixel that is active (changing its color/shade) for at least 80% of the duration of the video recording will be shown as white, otherwise as black (depends on the script). This feature allows you to reduce the background bias to minimum by setting higher t%. Other parameter – FS refers to the number of frames that will be analyzed. Normally the FS is preset to 0; it means every single video frame will be analyzed. However, when recording at 60 fps (optional) we recommend to set the FS at least to 5, to reduce the analysis time without losing a quality of the final result. Confirm selected parameters by clicking on the button: “Update Settings”.
Please be aware, when comparing multiple videos (e.g., control and test group), it is highly recommended to use the same parameters (i.e., t%, FS) in every analysis to obtain the most precise results.

4. Analyze
Clicking on this button will start the analysis process and the final data – black and white (or red-original frame background, depends on the script) PNG image will be saved in the selected folder. Usually, when analyzing 1 minute long video file recorded at 60 fps with FS set to 5, the whole process took around 35-40 seconds.

5. Show Output Folder
The Output Folder can be easily find by clicking on the button "Show Output Folder".

6. Back
This allows the user to return on the main menu.
